# ROAD_anomaly_detection

## Report
### Data Exploration:
For my data exploration (EDA) with the ROAD_dataset.h5 file, I started by exploring the structure of the file. I created functions that would evaluate each group and its contents. There were 10 anomaly groupings with imbalanced sample sizes, ranging from 56 (Oscillating Tiles) to 550 (Galactic Plane). Additionally, there were observations categorized as "Normal" and "All non-characterized effects." Based on this description, I believe, the data can have "Normal" occurrences outside of the already identified anomalies, but there could be occurrences of anomalies within data set itself. This opens the door to supervised and unsupervised approach that can be taken into consideration. 
    
I explored the data characteristics using pair plots to visualize relationships between features. To identify patterns, I plotted all observations as well as a single row of observation, within each grouping together to examine group-level trends and analyzed individual rows to compare specific observations. While I considered creating additional features, based on my understanding raw data had already been reduced in dimensionality during its creation using auto-correlation. Given this, further aggregation could misrepresent the data and obscure meaningful patterns, emphasizing the need to preserve the original structure of the observations.

I also evaluated other characteristics such as minimum, maximum, average, and standard deviation to understand the distribution of the groupings within the data set. I confirmed that there were no null values within the dataset. To further identify patterns I created heat maps of each grouping. The first set of heat maps represent a visualization of the spectrogram data from a single i-th indexed observation. This shows key features, like intensity noise patterns and repetitive frequency patterns like what is shown in First Order Noise and the Solar Flares occurrences have similar looking heat maps. This could potentially lead to misclassifications. I also, took a look at the heatmap for frequency bands which would be a good representation of the magnitude of frequency. This in a similar manner as the previous heat map can show us differences and similarities amongst the varying grouped data of frequency band characteristics. It is also evident that there multiple classes that represent on observation, which also leads to overlap in the data. This means that we can also conduct multi-label classification as well. For the purposes of sampling we will only use labels that have one classification to ensure we can confidently classify these anomalies. Another finding was that the train data has two labels, and empty string and a string of 1. Though I couldn't find direct definition of which label represents normal and the other potentially being anomalous, you can see that the graphical representation of the empty string values in the EDA, differ highly from the anomalous occurrences, therefore will be considered normal.


### Model
    